-June 24th. 6:55 AM.
Bob is catching the early
morning train to
the city for his first day
at Caleston Technology.
"Nothing like an early morning train
ride to settle the nerves," he thinks.
As the sunlight streams
through the window,
the coach he is in is quite crowded.
Bob recollects that the induction
will start at 9 AM at building A.
"Plenty of time to grab a cup of coffee
and prepare for the day," he thinks.
Lost in a trail of thought,
Bob was unaware
of the person sitting across
who had been observing him.
"Hi there. Are you new to the city?"
Bob was surprised.
He looks over and sees a man,
who looked to be
in his 50's,
dressed impeccably in a blue suit.
"Hello, good morning," Bob replies.
"My name is Bob.
Yes, I am new here,
but how did you know that?"
The stranger replies, "Look around,
you are the only person
looking out of the window.
People who take this train
every day would mostly be
glued to their mobile phones
at this time of the day.
No time to appreciate the true
beauty of the real world, I suppose,"
he chuckled.
Bob laughs, "I suppose that's true.
I am hoping I will
be one of them soon."
"Well, if that's what you really want.
My name is Dave.
Nice to meet you," he says.
Bob goes on to explain that
he is on his way to his
first day at an IT company
called Caleston Technologies.
Dave smiled,
"You are kidding," he said.
"Well,
that's where I'm heading as well.
I have been working there
for nearly 15 years now.
Now that I think of it,
I remember reading an email that said
a lot of people would be joining
the company by the month-end."
Dave sticks out his hand.
"Wow, that is amazing,"
Bob replies,
nervously shaking Dave's hand.
"I am joining as a junior
frontend developer,
and I am relatively new to IT."
"Well, we all have to start somewhere.
It is a great place to work.
You will find that out very soon,"
Dave says,
as the train stops at the station.
"This is where we get off.
Our office building
is just across the station.
I think you would want to
head over to building A."
"Yes, building A," nods Bob.
"I have a WAR meeting in building
C in 15 minutes," Dave sighed.
"It was great to meet you, and I'm sure
we will meet again soon. Good luck,"
says Dave,
as he heads over to building C.
"What a stroke of luck,"
Bob whispers to himself.
"Meeting a colleague
even before stepping
into the office for the first time.
I wonder what a WAR meeting is?"
He wonders what else lies
in store for him today
as he walks towards the building A.
11:20 AM.
The induction event
was pretty eventful.
Bob was amongst 15 other
software professionals.
He learned that his
new company Caleston
Technologies had won several
key projects all over
the world, specifically
in DevOps and Cloud technologies.
Bob was very excited at the prospect
of being part of such projects.
After learning about
the vision of the company,
and several policies,
such as workplace safety
and the anti-corruption Act,
which took 45 minutes, Bob
heads down the IT floor to get
his key card and the laptop.
After collecting the items,
he takes the elevator to the 8th floor.
He was told to go to the desk at 8A001,
where his new manager
Andrew would meet him.
Bob finds the desk and settles down.
"It's unboxing time," Bob thinks.
The laptop was an 8th
generation i5 with
128GB SSD hard disk, and 8GB of RAM.
"A little short of disk space,
but not bad.
Not bad at all," he thought.
He powers on the laptop, expecting to
see the familiar Windows boot screen.
He stares at the strange messages
being displayed across the screen
for a couple of minutes,
not being able to comprehend them.
"This is not Windows."
He thinks after a while.
"Ah, it's a Linux System, Ubuntu.
Sweet." Bob is excited.
In his previous company,
the only approved operating system
for employee workstations was Windows
10 and in some cases, a Mac.
He had limited experience
with Ubuntu though.
As a hobby, Bob likes to
explore open-source software.
Linux, being an open-source operating
system is free
of licensing restrictions.
Bob had installed it on a spare
personal computer and had got
around the minimalistic graphical
user interface a few times.
Once he logs in the first time using
the initial credentials
provided by the IT
support,
he sees a desktop interface that
is significantly
different from Windows.
He finds that the Windows equivalent
of the taskbar is on the left-hand
side by default.
It had come pre-installed with
apps such as thunderbird for mail,
Mozilla Firefox, Libre Office Writer
as a replacement for Microsoft Word.
There is an icon for Ubuntu Software.
A quick look shows
all the basic programs
that Bob might need,
such as Skype, and Slack.
This seems a bit familiar from his
trial run on his personal computer.
Bob was just about to
open the thunderbird email
client when a tall figure
stopped by his desk.
"You must be Bob. I am Andrew.
We spoke over the phone the other day."
He said.
"Hey, Andrew, how are you?"
Replies Bob.
Shaking Bob's hand.
"Doing very well, thanks."
"How was your induction?" Asks Andrew.
"It went very well," replies Bob.
"I learned a lot about
the company and the new projects.
I think I remember a couple of them.
The Project Mercury,
the Project Cannon," says Bob excitedly.
"Excellent." Nods Andrew happily.
"Yes, the Project Mercury
has been a big win for us
and incidentally, that is the project
you will be working on.
I hope you are ready
for a whole new world of cloud
computing and DevOps technologies,"
says Andrew.
"I sure am.
I am eager to learn," says Bob.
"That's what I like to hear and you will
get to learn a lot here," says Andrew.
Andrew observes that Bob
has logged in to his laptop.
"Ah," exclaims Andrew.
"I see you have already uncovered one
of the surprises
I had in store for you.
Now, I know you have primarily
worked on Windows in the past.
However, with Project Mercury, we're
focusing on a technology shift,
and we'll
be looking to implement a lot
of DevOps and Cloud-Native tools,"
adds, Andrew.
He continues,
"With that in mind, we want all
our engineers and developers
to get a taste of Linux.
After all, the basic knowledge
of Linux in your arsenal will enable
you to succeed as a DevOps engineer
in the long term." Bob agrees.
"Absolutely.
This is a fantastic opportunity indeed,
and I will try to make
the most out of it."
"That's good to hear.
That's your first task. Learn Linux,"
says Andrew.
You won't have to start
from scratch though.
The IT team would
have sent you an online
self-start guide to understand
the basics, specifically to get
started with the command line.
That's the part most
new users struggle with.
You can access it anytime
from the office network.
It even has some nifty lab
exercises to help you learn.
At the end of each chapter,
there is a mandatory test.
Once you have completed this,
I will introduce you to Dave.
He is the lead systems
engineer here and he would be
more than happy to give
you some advanced lessons.
"Dave," Bob gasps.
"I think I already met him on the train
this morning," exclaims Bob.
"Why am I not surprised?"
Laughs Andrew.
"That man knows everyone."
"Now I won't take up any
more of your time, but I want
to emphasize that you take
the training very seriously.
Your first project depends on it."
Bob nods nervously.
"The quick start guide should help,
so start with that.
We will meet again on Wednesday,
so please make sure you complete
the first chapter by then."
In fact,
I'm asking everyone in my team to
complete the online test by tomorrow
evening, I will leave you to your
draining good luck," says Andrew,
while walking away from the desk.
As soon as Andrew leaves,
Bob opens Thunderbird
and finds that his mailbox
has already been set up.
Sure enough, there is an email
from the IT Support with
a quick start guide on how
to use the new Linux OS.
The email explained that
the quick start guide is meant to
be used as a crash course
on how to use the Linux Shell.
The guide consisted of two chapters,
both
of which were accompanied
by hands-on labs.
To mark the chapter complete, users
had to complete
an online hands-on test.
The first chapter had a due
date of June 26th.
"Two days.
Let's get cracking then." Bob thinks.
Bob reads through the rest
of the instructions.
He observes that the terminal
application is not
pinned to his taskbar.
Bob follows one
of the tips from the guide.
He clicks on the "Show Applications"
Launcher, and then types in the word
terminal in the search bar.
"There you go. I am in, this
is the part I really want to dig in."
He thinks to himself.
With that, Bob opens the first
chapter in the guide.